In this lecture, we are going to look at how you point your domain name to your server for the duration
of this course, I will be using the domain registrar name Cheap Dotcom.
You are free to use the registrar of your choice name cheap offer an excellent free service called Free
DNS.
I must emphasize it's absolutely free.
If you want to make use of the free DNS service, I must mention that you will not be transferring your
domain names to name cheap.
You will only be using the free DNS service.
It's a straightforward procedure to use free DNS.
You sign up for the free DNS service and then at your current domain registrar you change the name servers
to those of the free DNS service.
That is the entire procedure you need to be able to set up to DNS records and a record and a C name
record with a record the host is at and the value is the IP address of your server with the C name record.
The host is W w w and the value is your domain name.
In my example, my domain name is WPEC Earline dot com.
My record is at and the value is the IP address of my server.
My C name record is w w w and the value is the domain name.
Please make note of the period after the domain name.
Some registrars require a period after the domain name.
By creating these two records, visitors will be able to access your site using your domain name and
w w w dot your domain name if you require or want to use a subdomain.
For example, forum dot WPEC allai dot com or shop dot WPEC allai dot com.
You need to set up additional aid records when configuring a subdomain.
The record type is and a record.
The host is your sub domain name and the value is your servers IP address.
In this lecture, we looked at how you point a domain name to your server, as well as being able to
visit your site using the domain name and w w w dot the domain name.